Document sorting in awk (#46)
exercism/awk: exercises/practice/tournament/.docs/instructions.append.md

# placeholder

## Sorting in AWK

> This exercise requires the output to be sorted in a particular way.  Like

Reviewer: The Python track uses one sentence per line in markdown files instead of using fixed width. Not sure how you feel about one over the other.

Author: I've [read about that](https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-recommended-practices/#one-sentence-per-line) and I see the merits behind it. But I think that markdown files have to work equally being read as a plain text file, and the jagged line lengths are quite distracting I find.

> many programming languages, iterating over an associative array occurs in
> some random-looking internal hashing order of the keys. This is typically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
many programming languages, iterating over an associative array results in an ordering which is implementation dependent and often random looking. This is typically
```

        n = asort(nums, sorted)

        for (i = 1; i <= n; i++)
            print i, nums[i], sorted[i]
    }
    ```
    which outputs
    ```none
    1 92 30
    2 59 57
    3 30 59
    4 57 74
    5 74 92
    ```

    The form `n = asort(array)` sorts the named array in-place.

    This is most useful for numerically-indexed arrays. The process that
    populates the `sorted` array discards the originally arrays indices:
    the `sorted` array is indexed from 1 to `n`.

1. `asorti` -- sort any array based on the array _indices_.

    The `asorti` function populates a "destination" array containing the 
    "source" array's indices sorted.

    ```awk
    #!gawk
    BEGIN {
        nums["foo"] = int(100 * rand())
        nums["bar"] = int(100 * rand())
        nums["qux"] = int(100 * rand())

        print "unordered"
        for (i in nums)
            print i, nums[i]

        print "ordered by index"
        n = asorti(nums, sorted)
        for (i = 1; i <= n; i++)
            print sorted[i], nums[sorted[i]]
    }
    ```
    which outputs
    ```none
    unordered
    foo 92
    qux 30
    bar 59
    ordered by index
    bar 59
    foo 92
    qux 30
    ```

> 1. `PROCINFO["sorted_in"]` -- sort any array using a sorting function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `PROCINFO["sorted_in"]` -- sort an array using a sorting function.
```

    The builtin PROCINFO array contains a lot of information about the
    running awk process. One interesting element of this array is
    `sorted_in`. The value of this array key is the name of a function
    which controls the order in which array indices will be processed by `for
    (indx in array)` loops.

>     The function can be the name of a user-defined function (_hint: this is

Reviewer: Do you want to show the function signature it expects?

Author: Yes
